- [Instructor] Have you ever had to send out
a mass communication, but wanted to customize
sections of the message for each recipient?
Mail merge allows you to send out individualized messages
to many recipients.
It can auto-fill names in the text
using a data source, like a list, spreadsheet, or database,
so recipients feel like it was addressed
specifically to them.
In this lesson, I'll walk you through what a mail merge is
and why it's so valuable.
Placeholders, known as merge fields,
tell Microsoft Word where in the document
to include information from the data source.
You build the main document in Word,
inserting merge fields for the personalized content
you want to include.
When the mail merge is complete,
Word will generate a personalized version of the document
for each entry in the data source.
Using a mail merge can take time to set up,
but saves time and energy in the long run.
Mail merge is only available
on the desktop application feature, not on the web version.
It works in conjunction with Outlook and Excel
for desktop as well.
Consider updating your Microsoft 365 account
to be one with access to the desktop applications,
so you'll always have access to the mail merge feature.
Mail merge is a time-saving tool
that will help you create mass communications with ease.
Try it out.